feat(driver-adapters): add README for "pg" (#22665)
prisma/prisma: packages/adapter-pg/README.md

# @prisma/adapter-pg

> This package contains the driver adapter for Prisma ORM that enables usage of the [`node-postgres`](https://node-postgres.com/) (`pg`) database driver for PostgreSQL. You can learn more in the [documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/overview/databases/postgresql#using-the-node-postgres-driver).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package contains the driver adapter for Prisma ORM that enables usage of the [`node-postgres`](https://node-postgres.com/) (`pg`) database driver for PostgreSQL. You can learn more in the [documentation](https://pris.ly/d/adapter-pg).
```

Let's make this a shortlink? See suggestion (created on Dub)
I think it will be a good "long term investment"

```prisma
// schema.prisma
generator client {
  provider        = "prisma-client-js"
  previewFeatures = ["driverAdapters"]
}

datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}
```

Once you have added the feature flag to your schema, re-generate Prisma Client:

```
npx prisma generate
```

### 2. Install the dependencies

Next, install the `pg` package and Prisma ORM's driver adapter:

```
npm install pg
npm install @prisma/adapter-pg
```

### 3. Instantiate Prisma Client using the driver adapter

Finally, when you instantiate Prisma Client, you need to pass an instance of Prisma ORM's driver adapter to the `PrismaClient` constructor:

```ts
import { Pool } from 'pg'
import { PrismaPg } from '@prisma/adapter-pg'
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client'

const connectionString = `${process.env.DATABASE_URL}`

const pool = new Pool({ connectionString })
const adapter = new PrismaPg(pool)
const prisma = new PrismaClient({ adapter })
```

## Feedback

We encourage you to create an issue if you find something missing or run into a bug.

> If you have any feedback, leave a comment in [this GitHub discussion](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/discussions/21346).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have any feedback, leave a comment in [this GitHub discussion](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/discussions/22899).
```

# @prisma/adapter-pg

Prisma driver adapter for the [Postgres `pg` driver](https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres).

> **Note:**: Support for the `pg` driver is available from Prisma versions [5.4.2](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/releases/tag/5.4.2) and later.

The [Postgres `pg` driver](https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres) is a low-latency Postgres driver for JavaScript and TypeScript that allows you to query data any environment, including serverless and edge clouds.

## Getting started

To get started, enable the `driverAdapters` Preview feature in your Prisma schema:

```prisma
// schema.prisma
generator client {
  provider        = "prisma-client-js"
  previewFeatures = ["driverAdapters"]
}

datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}
```

> **Note**: Make sure your connection string exists in your `.env` file.
>
> ```bash
> DATABASE_URL="postgres://user:password@server.us-east-2.aws.com/yourdb"

> > ```

Author: This is the same `.env` advice we gave for Neon and PlanetScale, but are we sure we want to keep it this way? `.env` files do not work in all platforms.

For instance, they do not work on Cloudflare Workers. Rather, one could use:
- A `.dev.vars` file when developing with `wrangler dev`, following the same format and semantics as the `.env` snippet above
- A `[env.production.vars]` / `[env.staging.vars]` section in `wrangler.toml` for setting the variables for deployments.

I'm bringing this up so we can decide how we should tailor the README. Ideally, specifics about setting up env variables depending on the platform should live in Prisma Docs, and we should just add a link to that page in here.

Reviewer 2: Agree! In my suggestion, I mentioned in the beginning that the `DATABASE_URL` needs to be set to the Postgres connection string without prescribin how to do it (but still mentioning `.env` as a a possibility).

Generate Prisma Client:

```sh
npx prisma generate
```

Install the Prisma adapter for `pg`, as well as `pg` itself:

```sh
npm install @prisma/adapter-pg
npm install pg
```

Update your Prisma Client instance to use the `pg` driver:

```ts
// Import needed packages
import { Pool } from 'pg'
import { PrismaPg } from '@prisma/adapter-pg'
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client'

// Setup
const connectionString = `${process.env.DATABASE_URL}`

// Init prisma client
const pool = new Pool({ connectionString })

> const adapter = new PrismaNeon(pool)

Author: ```suggestion
const adapter = new PrismaPg(pool)
```

> > **Note:**: Support for the `pg` driver is available from Prisma versions [5.4.2](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/releases/tag/5.4.2) and later.
> 
> The [Postgres `pg` driver](https://github.com/brianc/node-postgres) is a low-latency Postgres driver for JavaScript and TypeScript that allows you to query data any environment, including serverless and edge clouds.
> 
> ## Getting started
> 
> To get started, enable the `driverAdapters` Preview feature in your Prisma schema:
> 
> ```prisma
> // schema.prisma
> generator client {
>   provider        = "prisma-client-js"
>   previewFeatures = ["driverAdapters"]
> }
> 
> datasource db {
>   provider = "postgresql"
>   url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
> }
> ```
> 
> > **Note**: Make sure your connection string exists in your `.env` file.
> >
> > ```bash
> > DATABASE_URL="postgres://user:password@server.us-east-2.aws.com/yourdb"
> > ```
> 
> Generate Prisma Client:
> 
> ```sh
> npx prisma generate
> ```
> 
> Install the Prisma adapter for `pg`, as well as `pg` itself:
> 
> ```sh
> npm install @prisma/adapter-pg
> npm install pg
> ```
> 
> Update your Prisma Client instance to use the `pg` driver:
> 
> ```ts
> // Import needed packages
> import { Pool } from 'pg'
> import { PrismaPg } from '@prisma/adapter-pg'
> import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client'
> 
> // Setup
> const connectionString = `${process.env.DATABASE_URL}`
> 
> // Init prisma client
> const pool = new Pool({ connectionString })
> const adapter = new PrismaPg(pool)
> const prisma = new PrismaClient({ adapter })
> 
> // Use Prisma Client as normal
> ```
> 
> You can now use Prisma Client as you normally would with full type-safety. Your Prisma Client instance now uses the Postgres `pg` driver to connect to your database.

Reviewer 2: I think this looks great! I did some slight adjustments but overall kept the same structure that you already used @jkomyno 💯 

````suggestion
This package contains the driver adapter for Prisma ORM that enables usage of the [`node-postgres`](https://node-postgres.com/) (`pg`) database driver for PostgreSQL. You can learn more in the [documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs/orm/overview/databases/postgresql#using-the-node-postgres-driver).

`pg` is one of the most popular drivers in the JavaScript ecosystem for PostgreSQL databases. It can be used with any PostgreSQL database that's accessed via TCP.

> **Note:**: Support for the `pg` driver is available from Prisma versions [5.4.2](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/releases/tag/5.4.2) and later.

## Usage

This section explains how you can use it with Prisma ORM and the `@prisma/adapter-pg` driver adapter. Be sure that the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable is set to your PostgreSQL connection string (e.g. in a `.env` file).

### 1. Enable the `driverAdapters` Preview feature flag

Since driver adapters are currently in [Preview](/orm/more/releases#preview), you need to enable its feature flag on the `datasource` block in your Prisma schema:

```prisma
// schema.prisma
generator client {
  provider        = "prisma-client-js"
  previewFeatures = ["driverAdapters"]
}

datasource db {
  provider = "postgresql"
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
}
```

Once you have added the feature flag to your schema, re-generate Prisma Client:

```
npx prisma generate
```

### 2. Install the dependencies

Next, install the `pg` package and Prisma ORM's driver adapter:

```
npm install pg
npm install @prisma/adapter-pg
```

### 3. Instantiate Prisma Client using the driver adapter

Finally, when you instantiate Prisma Client, you need to pass an instance of Prisma ORM's driver adapter to the `PrismaClient` constructor:

```ts
import { Pool } from 'pg'
import { PrismaPg } from '@prisma/adapter-pg'
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client'

const connectionString = `${process.env.DATABASE_URL}`

const pool = new Pool({ connectionString })
const adapter = new PrismaPg(pool)
const prisma = new PrismaClient({ adapter })
```
````

## Feedback

We encourage you to create an issue if you find something missing or run into a bug.

> If you have any feedback, leave a comment in [this GitHub discussion](https://github.com/prisma/prisma/discussions/21346).

Author: TODO: create a Github discussion titled "Preview feature feedback: @prisma/adapter-pg / Postgres `pg` Driver support", and paste the link here.
